Update release process (#1350)
collective/icalendar: docs/contribute/maintenance.rst

        git checkout main
        git pull

#.  When cutting any new release that you'll tag and want to be considered "stable" on either the ``main`` or development branch, update the Sphinx configuration file :file:`docs/conf.py` to match that version.

    Hide the warning banner.

    .. code-block:: python

        html_theme_options = {
            # ...
            "show_version_warning_banner": False,

> 

Reviewer: Why did you remove this? The "stable" version on RTD must hide the banner. Please revert.

    ..  code-block:: shell

        make changes

#.  Add the changes, create a commit on the ``main`` branch, and push the changes to prepare a release of this version.

    .. code-block:: shell

        git add CHANGES.rst news/
        git add .github/workflows/tests.yml  # Only for a new major release
        git commit -m"version $VERSION"
        git push  # to collective/icalendar

#.  See if the `CI tests <https://github.com/collective/icalendar/actions>`_ are running on the commit.
    If they are not running, no new release can be issued.
    If the CI passes, go ahead.

#.  Create a tag for the release on its release branch ``*.x``, push, and make sure the `CI tests`_ are running.

    .. code-block:: shell

        git checkout main  # You should already be on ``main``.
        git pull  # In case someone else updated ``main`` while tests ran.
        # For a major release, create a new branch and check it out.
        git checkout -b 7.x
        # For a minor or patch release, check out the existing branch.
        git checkout 7.x
        git pull
        git merge main

>         git push  # to collective/icalendar

Reviewer 2: After `git checkout -b 7.x` (new branch from main for a major release), the branch has no upstream. The subsequent `git pull` fails (no remote to pull from) and `git push` needs `-u origin 7.x` first. Either fix or fold into the suggestion above.

Reviewer: Oopsie. I should have followed my own advice that I wrote for Plone.

https://6.docs.plone.org/contributing/first-time.html#write-code

Please double-check that I got this one right. It's tricky.

https://icalendar--1350.org.readthedocs.build/en/1350/contribute/maintenance.html#new-releases Step 8.

        git tag "v$VERSION"

>         git push upstream "v$VERSION" # to collective/icalendar

Reviewer 2: The code block has both `git checkout -b 7.x` (line 169) and `git checkout 7.x` (line 171) with comments saying which release type each is for. A maintainer copy-pasting the block runs both, for a patch release, `git checkout -b 7.x` fails because the branch already exists.

Suggest splitting into two separate code blocks per release type, or using something more copy-paste safe like:

```suggestion
        git checkout main  # You should already be on ``main``.
        git pull  # In case someone else updated ``main`` while tests ran.

        # For a major release, create the new release branch:
        git checkout -b 7.x
        git push -u origin 7.x

        # For a minor or patch release, check out the existing branch:
        git checkout 7.x
        git pull
        git merge main
        git push  # to collective/icalendar

        git tag "v$VERSION"
        git push upstream "v$VERSION"  # to collective/icalendar
```

    ..  code-block:: shell

        make changes

#.  Add the changes, create a commit on the ``main`` branch, and push the changes to prepare a release of this version.

    .. code-block:: shell

        git add CHANGES.rst news/
        git add .github/workflows/tests.yml  # Only for a new major release
        git commit -m"version $VERSION"
        git push  # to collective/icalendar

#.  See if the `CI tests <https://github.com/collective/icalendar/actions>`_ are running on the commit.
    If they are not running, no new release can be issued.
    If the CI passes, go ahead.

#.  Create a tag for the release on its release branch ``*.x``, push, and make sure the `CI tests`_ are running.

    a.  First, make sure you're on the ``main`` branch and it's current, in case someone else updated ``main`` while tests ran.

        .. code-block:: shell

            git checkout main
            git pull

    #.  Next, depending on the release type, do one of the following.

        -   For a major release, create a new branch, check it out, and set the tracked branch.

            .. code-block:: shell

>                 git switch -c 7.x -t upstream/main

Reviewer 2: `-t upstream/main` sets `7.x`'s upstream to `upstream/main`. Later, plain `git push` on line 191 fails with:

```
fatal: The upstream branch of your current branch does not match
the name of your current branch.
```

(Tested in a scratch repo with default `push.default = simple`.)

```suggestion
                git switch -c 7.x
```

Reviewer: Oh, that's right. This is for maintainers pushing to `origin`. Committing.

        -   For a minor or patch release, check out the existing branch.

            .. code-block:: shell

                git checkout 7.x

    #.  Continue to update the release branch, merge ``main`` into the branch, push changes, tag it, and push the tag.

        .. code-block:: shell

            git pull
            git merge main

>             git push  # to collective/icalendar

Reviewer 2: Tied to above coment, when `7.x` is brand new and has no upstream, plain `git push` fails. The major release case needs `git push -u upstream 7.x` for the first push to establish tracking. The minor/patch case keeps the plain `git push` since `7.x` already has an upstream.

Easiest fix is to split Step 8c per release type, similar to 8b.

Reviewer: Overhauled in 1b853d7f573ee21ccefcdb9f20d9de6449e65204.

        -7.0.0 (unreleased)
        +7.0.0 (2026-02-11)

> #.  Create a commit on a ``main`` branch to release this version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#.  Create a commit on the ``main`` branch to release this version.
```

    .. code-block:: shell

        git checkout main

>         git add CHANGES.rst

Reviewer: Per https://github.com/collective/icalendar/pull/1389#issuecomment-4459378723.

```suggestion
        git checkout main
        git pull
        git add CHANGES.rst docs/conf.py news/
```

        git commit -m"version $VERSION"

>         git push # to collective/icalendar

Reviewer: This will probably need to be revised after https://github.com/collective/icalendar/pull/1389 is merged and this PR rebased on it. As @SashankBhamidi pointed out, we need to commit the changes in the `/news` directory as well. See https://github.com/collective/icalendar/pull/1389#issuecomment-4459378723.

> #.  See if the `CI tests <https://github.com/collective/icalendar/actions>`_ are running on commit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#.  See if the `CI tests <https://github.com/collective/icalendar/actions>`_ are running on the commit.
```

        git checkout main
        git pull
        git checkout 7.x
        git pull
        git merge main

>         git push  # to collective/icalendar

Reviewer: All these are redundant to the previous step. Please remove.

        tests: PyPI is waiting for your review

> #.  If the release is approved by a maintainer, it will be pushed to `PyPI`_. Do not wait for that, continue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#.  If the release is approved by a maintainer, it will be pushed to `PyPI`_.
    Don't wait for that, continue.
```

        tests: PyPI is waiting for your review

#.  If the release is approved by a maintainer, it will be pushed to `PyPI`_.
    Don't wait for that, continue.

#.  Update the version switcher file :file:`docs/_static/version-switcher.json`.

    .. note::

        This file is configured in :file:`docs/conf.py` on *all* branches to use the version on the ``main`` branch, which is "latest" on Read the Docs.

        ..  code-block:: python

            json_url = "https://icalendar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_static/version-switcher.json"

    The following examples were used for the 7.0.0 release.

    a.  Check out the ``main`` branch and update it.

        ..  code-block:: shell

            git checkout main
            git pull

    #.  When cutting a new *major* release version, update :file:`docs/_static/version-switcher.json` to match that version.

>     

Reviewer 2: 4 trailing spaces on an otherwise blank line.

Reviewer: Fixed in 29698c84f8879bfe2dd5c6cf81a30dbd090a873c.

        git add CHANGES.rst
        git commit -m "Add new CHANGELOG section for future release"
        git push # to collective/icalendar

#.  Go through all open PRs and tell them to adjust their changelog entries to the new section.

    .. code-block:: text

>         Hi, we created a new release, please move your edits in CHANGES.rst to the new section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Hi, we created a new release. Please move your edits in `CHANGES.rst` to the appropriate section under the "unreleased" version heading.
```

>         Hi, we created a new release, please move your edits in CHANGES.rst to the new section.

Reviewer: This is unnecessary, per https://github.com/collective/icalendar/pull/1389.

```suggestion
```

        git commit -m "Restore version warning banner for 'latest' on Read the Docs"
        git push  # to collective/icalendar

#.  If you cut a new *major* release version, update the Sphinx configuration file :file:`docs/conf.py` on the *previous* numbered major release branch to show the version warning banner.
    For example, when releasing 7.0.0, checkout ``6.x``, and update it as shown.

    .. code-block:: shell

        git checkout 6.x
        git pull

    .. code-block:: python

        html_theme_options = {
            # ...
            "show_version_warning_banner": True,

    ..  code-block:: shell

        git add docs/conf.py
        git commit -m "Show version warning banner for previous major version 6.x on Read the Docs"
        git push  # to collective/icalendar

#.  Configure `Read the Docs <https://app.readthedocs.org/projects/icalendar/>`_.

    a.  Verify that the "stable" version was activated automatically on Read the Docs.

    #.  Deactivate previous releases in that current stable release line.
        Click on the ellipsis icon, and select :guilabel:`Configure version`.
        Toggle the :guilabel:`Active` switch to deactivate the version.

> #.  Add a comment to each of the issues mentioned in the new release of the new release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#.  Add a comment to each of the issues mentioned in the new release.
```

Reviewer: Done in a7de8f0707cabe31101380c79a8c35e9d3126e5d.

                    "preferred": "true"
                },
    
        #.  Also update :file:`.github/workflows/tests.yml` to include the new release branch in the list of branches that trigger the CI tests.

            .. code-block:: yaml

                push:
                  branches:
                  - main
                  - 7.x
                  tags:

>                   - v*

Reviewer: This section is intended for updating the version switcher. It does not belong here. Please move it where you think it is appropriate.

                "url": "https://icalendar.readthedocs.io/en/stable/",
                "preferred": "true"
            },
        
        .. code-block:: shell

            git checkout main
            git pull
            git add docs/_static/version-switcher.json
            git commit -m "Update version switcher for $VERSION"
            git push # to collective/icalendar

#.  When cutting a new *major stable release* version, update the Sphinx configuration file :file:`docs/conf.py` as shown.
    On the previous numbered major release branch, show the warning banner.
    For example, when releasing 7.0.0, checkout ``6.x``, and update it as shown.

    .. code-block:: python

        html_theme_options = {
            # ...
            "show_version_warning_banner": True,

#.  After a *major release*, configure `Read the Docs <https://app.readthedocs.org/projects/icalendar/>`_.

>     Verify that the version was activated automatically on Read the Docs.

Reviewer: Please revert all this. It no longer makes sense when you removed the numbering.

https://icalendar--1350.org.readthedocs.build/en/1350/contribute/maintenance.html

I'm not sure what your intent is here.
